CSE 111 Proposal for a Student Chosen Program

    (This is a proposal. All proposals are written with our best
    knowledge at the beginning of a project. As we progress from the
    beginning to the end of a project, we gain more knowledge, and we
    change some of our proposed ideas. This is part of completing any
    project and is fine.  However, we still must write a proposal so
    that our teachers or supervisors know what we intend to do. Please
    answer each of the following questions to the best of your
    knowledge.)

1. What is the title of your program?

    Calorie Tracker Elite

2. What real-world problem will your program address or help to solve?

    I am trying to lose weight and I want my own program to help me track my calories
    also to provide me with some quotes to motivate me

3. What will you learn from developing this program?

    I will learn a lot about using dictonaries and I might try and put this into tkinter and give it some ui 
    I will also learn about user data and how to store user data on a given day
    if the day updates to a new day, we will overwrite the contents of the exisiting 
    file just for ease 

4. What Python modules will your program use?

    (Some examples are: csv, datetime, functools, matplotlib, math,
    pandas, pytest, random, requests, and tkinter.)

    math
    datetime
    pytest
    csv

5. List the names of functions you will need?

    add_food(food_name, calories, log)
    updates the log created when the user starts a new day

    view_log(log)
    shows you the running log 

    calculate_total_calories(log)
    calculates the logs total calories

    save_log(filename, log)
    saves data to the log so that when the program closes it will save

    quote_generator(filename)
    this will cycle through a list of quotes in a txt file and spits it out 
    to the user at the top of the program to motivate

    change_quote()
    have it so the user can change the quote if they want to 

    add_quote()
    You can add your own quote to the file as well

    (Remember that the most reusable functions don't get user input and
    don't print results but instead have parameters and return a result.
    Functions that get user input and print results are important and do
    useful work but are not easily reusable.)

    (Remember also that it's hard to test functions that get user input
    and print results. It's easy to test functions that don't get user
    input and don't print results but instead have parameters and return
    a result. Therefore, you should write most of your program functions
    to have parameters and return a result.)

6. List the names of the test functions you will write.

    test_add_food_entry()
    Check that adding an entry updates the log.

    test_calculate_total_calories()
    Confirm totals are correct with known data.

    test_check_remaining()
    Make sure it calculates remaining calories properly against a goal.

    test_remove_entry()
    Ensure deleting works as expected.

    


I believe this will be chalenging for me becaue it involves a lot of data manipulation and file access. I will also need to 
change things based off of the date. I am excited to start this!